As discussed in our meeting, here is the relevant paper for this first homework assignment( https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0004-637X/765/2/131/pdf ). This was our 2013 habitable zone (HZ) paper and my first publication as a Ph.D. student.

I have attached 4 files (from Figures 6 and 8, respectively, of our paper) describing the inner and outer edge boundaries of the habitable zone for stars with effective temperatures between 2,600 - 7,200 K.

There are 3 main tasks here:

1) Recreate both planetary albedo plots (with labels) from Figure 6

2) Recreate both SEFF plots from Figure 6

3) Also, recreate the habitable zone plot with labels, similar to Figure 8  (please do not worry about adding the green shaded color).
For now just add the curves, do not worry about adding the planet points or legend.

As mentioned, you can use either Python or MATLAB or equivalent.


Use the "textread" function in MATLAB or "genfromtxt" in Python (numpy library) or "readcsv" (pandas library) to read in the data from the text files I gave you.
Use the "help" and/or "doc" commands to figure out more details on what "textread" or other MATLAB functions do. You can google the equivalent Python commands.

When you are done please send me both your code and plots.

The planetary albedo is the fraction of incoming stellar energy that is reflected back out instead of being absorbed. Dark surfaces have a low albedo because they absorb a lot whereas light surfaces have a high albedo (reflecting a lot).

In my codes, planetary albedo is calculated by dividing the upward stellar flux (FUPSOL) by the downward stellar flux (FDNSOL) at the top of the atmosphere.
However, it is already pre-calculated for you in this file. The "ALBEDO" column in both text files is the planetary albedo.
Then, FUPSOL - FDNSOL = FTSOL (which is the net or total solar flux).

The effective stellar flux (SEFF) is defined as the ratio of the outgoing flux by the incoming stellar flux (= FTIR/FTSOL).  If you divide your FTIR values by their FTSOL values, you should get SEFF.
In my papers, I usually write "FTIR" =  "FIR" and "FTSOL" = "FS" for short. 